films adapted from comic books have had plenty of success , whether they're about superheroes ( batman , superman , spawn ) , or geared toward kids ( casper ) or the arthouse crowd ( ghost world ) , but there's never really been a comic book like from hell before . 
for starters , it was created by alan moore ( and eddie campbell ) , who brought the medium to a whole new level in the mid '80s with a 12-part series called the watchmen . 
to say moore and campbell thoroughly researched the subject of jack the ripper would be like saying michael jackson is starting to look a little odd . 
the book ( or " graphic novel , " if you will ) is over 500 pages long and includes nearly 30 more that consist of nothing but footnotes . 
in other words , don't dismiss this film because of its source . 
if you can get past the whole comic book thing , you might find another stumbling block in from hell's directors , albert and allen hughes . 
getting the hughes brothers to direct this seems almost as ludicrous as casting carrot top in , well , anything , but riddle me this : who better to direct a film that's set in the ghetto and features really violent street crime than the mad geniuses behind menace ii society ? 
the ghetto in question is , of course , whitechapel in 1888 london's east end . 
it's a filthy , sooty place where the whores ( called " unfortunates " ) are starting to get a little nervous about this mysterious psychopath who has been carving through their profession with surgical precision . 
when the first stiff turns up , copper peter godley ( robbie coltrane , the world is not enough ) calls in inspector frederick abberline ( johnny depp , blow ) to crack the case . 
abberline , a widower , has prophetic dreams he unsuccessfully tries to quell with copious amounts of absinthe and opium . 
upon arriving in whitechapel , he befriends an unfortunate named mary kelly ( heather graham , say it isn't so ) and proceeds to investigate the horribly gruesome crimes that even the police surgeon can't stomach . 
i don't think anyone needs to be briefed on jack the ripper , so i won't go into the particulars here , other than to say moore and campbell have a unique and interesting theory about both the identity of the killer and the reasons he chooses to slay . 
in the comic , they don't bother cloaking the identity of the ripper , but screenwriters terry hayes ( vertical limit ) and rafael yglesias ( les mis ? rables ) do a good job of keeping him hidden from viewers until the very end . 
it's funny to watch the locals blindly point the finger of blame at jews and indians because , after all , an englishman could never be capable of committing such ghastly acts . 
and from hell's ending had me whistling the stonecutters song from the simpsons for days ( " who holds back the electric car/who made steve guttenberg a star ? " ) . 
don't worry - it'll all make sense when you see it . 
now onto from hell's appearance : it's certainly dark and bleak enough , and it's surprising to see how much more it looks like a tim burton film than planet of the apes did ( at times , it seems like sleepy hollow 2 ) . 
the print i saw wasn't completely finished ( both color and music had not been finalized , so no comments about marilyn manson ) , but cinematographer peter deming ( don't say a word ) ably captures the dreariness of victorian-era london and helped make the flashy killing scenes remind me of the crazy flashbacks in twin peaks , even though the violence in the film pales in comparison to that in the black-and-white comic . 
oscar winner martin childs' ( shakespeare in love ) production design turns the original prague surroundings into one creepy place . 
even the acting in from hell is solid , with the dreamy depp turning in a typically strong performance and deftly handling a british accent . 
ians holm ( joe gould's secret ) and richardson ( 102 dalmatians ) log in great supporting roles , but the big surprise here is graham . 
i cringed the first time she opened her mouth , imagining her attempt at an irish accent , but it actually wasn't half bad . 
the film , however , is all good . 
2 : 00 - r for strong violence/gore , sexuality , language and drug content .
every now and then a movie comes along from a suspect studio , with every indication that it will be a stinker , and to everybody's surprise ( perhaps even the studio ) the film becomes a critical darling . 
mtv films' _election , a high school comedy starring matthew broderick and reese witherspoon , is a current example . 
did anybody know this film existed a week before it opened ? 
the plot is deceptively simple . 
george washington carver high school is having student elections . 
tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an over-achiever with her hand raised at nearly every question , way , way , high . 
mr . " m " ( matthew broderick ) , sick of the megalomaniac student , encourages paul , a popular-but-slow jock to run . 
and paul's nihilistic sister jumps in the race as well , for personal reasons . 
the dark side of such sleeper success is that , because expectations were so low going in , the fact that this was quality stuff made the reviews even more enthusiastic than they have any right to be . 
you can't help going in with the baggage of glowing reviews , which is in contrast to the negative baggage that the reviewers were likely to have . 
_election , a good film , does not live up to its hype . 
what makes _election_ so disappointing is that it contains significant plot details lifted directly from _rushmore_ , released a few months earlier . 
the similarities are staggering : 
tracy flick ( _election_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
max fischer ( _rushmore_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
the most significant tension of _election_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
the most significant tension of _rushmore_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
tracy flick is from a single parent home , which has contributed to her drive . 
max fischer is from a single parent home , which has contributed to his drive . 
the male bumbling adult in _election_ ( matthew broderick ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he even gets a bee sting . 
the male bumbling adult in _rushmore_ ( bill murray ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he gets several bee stings . 
and so on . 
what happened ? 
moviemaking is a lot like being the general manager of an nfl team in the post-salary cap era -- you've got to know how to allocate your resources . 
every dollar spent on a free-agent defensive tackle is one less dollar than you can spend on linebackers or safeties or centers . 
in the nfl , this leads to teams like the detroit lions , who boast a superstar running back with a huge contract , but can only field five guys named herb to block for him . 
in the movies , you end up with films like " spawn " , with a huge special-effects budget but not enough money to hire any recognizable actors . 
jackie chan is the barry sanders of moviemaking . 
he spins and darts across the screen like sanders cutting back through the defensive line . 
watching jackie in operation condor as he drives his motorcycle through the crowded streets of madrid , fleeing an armada of pursuers in identical black compact cars , is reminiscent of sanders running for daylight with the chicago bears in hot pursuit , except that sanders doesn't have to worry about rescuing runaway baby carriages . 
but like the lions star , jackie doesn't have anybody to block for him . 
almost every cent that's invested in a jackie chan movie goes for stunts , and as chan does his own stunts , the rest of the money goes to pay his hospital bills . 
this leaves about 75 cents to pay for things like directors ( chan directs ) , scripts and dubbing and supporting characters , not to mention the hideous title sequence . 
this also explains why the movie was shot in odd places like morocco and spain . 
 ( chan's first release in this country , " rumble in the bronx " , was supposedly set in new york , but was filmed in vancouver , and in the chase scenes the canadian rockies are clearly visible . ) 
heck , jackie doesn't even have enough money for a haircut , looks like , much less a personal hairstylist . 
in condor , chan plays the same character he's always played , himself , a mixture of bruce lee and tim allen , a master of both kung-fu and slapstick-fu . 
jackie is sent by the un to retrieve a cache of lost nazi gold in the north african desert , and is chased by a horde of neo-nazi sympathizers and two stereotypical arabs ( one of the things i like about jackie chan movies : no political correctness ) . 
he is joined by three women , who have little to do except scream , " jackie , save us ! " , and misuse firearms . 
the villain is an old nazi whose legs were broken in the secret base so that he has to be carried everywhere , and he's more pathetic than evil . 
en route , we have an extended motorcycle chase scene , a hilarious fight in the moroccan version of motel 6 with the neo-nazis , and two confrontations with savage natives . 
once at the secret desert base , there is a long chop-socky sequence , followed by the film's centerpiece , a wind-tunnel fight that's even better than the one in face/off . 
this is where the money was spent , on well-choreographed kung-fu sequences , on giant kevlar hamster balls , on smashed-up crates of bananas , and on scorpions . 
ignore the gaping holes in the plot ( how , exactly , if the villain's legs were broken , did he escape from the secret nazi base , and why didn't he take the key with him ? ) . 
don't worry about the production values , or what , exactly , the japanese girl was doing hitchhiking across the sahara . 
just go see the movie . 
operation condor has pretentions of being a " raiders of the lost ark " knockoff , but one wonders what jackie could do with the raiders franchise blocking for him -- with a lawrence kazdan screenplay , a john williams score , spielberg directing and george lucas producing , condor might be an a+ movie . 
however , you've got to go with what you've got , and what you've got in jackie chan is something special -- a talent that mainstream hollywood should , could , and ought to utilize . 
on june 30 , 1960 , a self-taught , idealistic , yet pragmatic , young man became , at age 36 , the first head of government of a newly independent african state , formerly the belgian congo . 
two months later , he was ousted from his powerful position and hunted by government troops until he was captured and brutally murdered along with two aides . 
this little-known story of this meteoric rise and fall is told my international filmmaker raoul peck in " lumumba . " 
patrice lumumba's ( eriq ebouaney ) story has been told previously by helmer peck in his 1991 award winning documentary , " lumumba - death of a prophet , " virtually guaranteeing that his new , fictional account of a patriot remains true to its subject . 
peck , with co-writer pascal bonitzer , begins at the end of the story of the young political leader . 
we watch as two white men perform the gruesome task of dismembering the bodies of three black men . 
images of hatchets , saws and fast-emptying whiskey bottles accompany the grisly image . 
jump back a few years to a meeting among the black leaders in the belgian-owned congo . 
a third class postal worker , lumumba , speaks his mind to heads of the most powerful tribes , proclaiming himself not tribal , not regional , but a national leader . 
his small , mobile party , the congolese national movement ( mnc ) is gaining prominence and patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer , and get his face known , in the bustling capital , stanleyville . 
at a time when the colonial empires are falling down around the world , lumumba is in the right place at the right time and , through political savvy and chess-like manipulation , achieves a position of leadership of the mnc . 
as the date for independence approaches , he tactically positions himself to be the new nation's first prime minister and defense minister , supporting the presidency of joseph kasa vubu ( maka kotto ) . 
the coalition he created soon starts to fall apart as the former belgian masters continue to exert influence on the struggling nation as they strive to maintain economic hold on the country's vast natural resources of copper , diamonds , gold and more . 
lumumba won't seek the help of the us , knowing that they would try to create de facto american control of the fledgling government . 
his initial investigation into soviet assistance immediately tags patrice as a communist and his integrity is overshadowed by the cold war threat of russian domination . 
the situation goes from bad to worse as the army mutinies , the remaining whites begin to evacuate or arm themselves , belgian troops violently intervene , the lucrative katanga province succeeds under the leadership of rival moise tschombe ( pascal nzonzi ) and lumumba is refused access to his own country when he returns from a conference abroad . 
this tumultuous and little known period of modern african history saw a score of nations struggling for independence from the sometimes-odious colonialists who have ruled much of the world from their european seats of power for centuries . 
peck focuses his story on familiar material that strives to give an honest portrayal of patrice lumumba , his friend and foes and the independence movements that gripped africa in the 50's and 60's . 
 ( during the time the story takes place , many new nations , including nigeria and somalia , were born , with varying degrees of success and failure , usually dependent upon which country colonized them . 
some colonial masters were better than others . ) 
the effort involved in " lumumba " is quite ambitious as peck and his crew before and behind the camera strive to bring to life this slice of world history that might have gone unexplored for decades , if at all . 
production values are first rate on what must be a small , by us standards , budget . 
the period feel and realistic african settings are nicely maintained in a production that traveled from zimbabwe to mozambique . 
the screenplay covers a lot of ground and does yeoman's work in providing a great deal of detailed history while trying to do justice to the story of lumumba's life . 
the political side of things is evenly told in a linear , straightforward manner that teaches , not preaches . 
plot : two teen couples go to a church party , drink and then drive . 
they get into an accident . 
one of the guys dies , but his girlfriend continues to see him in her life , and has nightmares . 
what's the deal ? 
watch the movie and " sorta " find out . . . 
critique : a mind-fuck movie for the teen generation that touches on a very cool idea , but presents it in a very bad package . 
which is what makes this review an even harder one to write , since i generally applaud films which attempt to break the mold , mess with your head and such ( lost highway & memento ) , but there are good and bad ways of making all types of films , and these folks just didn't snag this one correctly . 
they seem to have taken this pretty neat concept , but executed it terribly . 
so what are the problems with the movie ? 
well , its main problem is that it's simply too jumbled . 
it starts off " normal " but then downshifts into this " fantasy " world in which you , as an audience member , have no idea what's going on . 
there are dreams , there are characters coming back from the dead , there are others who look like the dead , there are strange apparitions , there are disappearances , there are a looooot of chase scenes , there are tons of weird things that happen , and most of it is simply not explained . 
now i personally don't mind trying to unravel a film every now and then , but when all it does is give me the same clue over and over again , i get kind of fed up after a while , which is this film's biggest problem . 
it's obviously got this big secret to hide , but it seems to want to hide it completely until its final five minutes . 
and do they make things entertaining , thrilling or even engaging , in the meantime ? 
not really . 
the sad part is that the arrow and i both dig on flicks like this , so we actually figured most of it out by the half-way point , so all of the strangeness after that did start to make a little bit of sense , but it still didn't the make the film all that more entertaining . 
i guess the bottom line with movies like this is that you should always make sure that the audience is " into it " even before they are given the secret password to enter your world of understanding . 
i mean , showing melissa sagemiller running away from visions for about 20 minutes throughout the movie is just plain lazy ! ! 
okay , we get it . . . there 
are people chasing her and we don't know who they are . 
do we really need to see it over and over again ? 
how about giving us different scenes offering further insight into all of the strangeness going down in the movie ? 
apparently , the studio took this film away from its director and chopped it up themselves , and it shows . 
there might've been a pretty decent teen mind-fuck movie in here somewhere , but i guess " the suits " decided that turning it into a music video with little edge , would make more sense . 
synopsis : a mentally unstable man undergoing psychotherapy saves a boy from a potentially fatal accident and then falls in love with the boy's mother , a fledgling restauranteur . 
unsuccessfully attempting to gain the woman's favor , he takes pictures of her and kills a number of people in his way . 
comments : stalked is yet another in a seemingly endless string of spurned-psychos-getting-their-revenge type movies which are a stable category in the 1990s film industry , both theatrical and direct-to-video . 
their proliferation may be due in part to the fact that they're typically inexpensive to produce ( no special effects , no big name stars ) and serve as vehicles to flash nudity ( allowing them to frequent late-night cable television ) . 
stalked wavers slightly from the norm in one respect : the psycho never actually has an affair ; on the contrary , he's rejected rather quickly ( the psycho typically is an ex-lover , ex-wife , or ex-husband ) . 
other than that , stalked is just another redundant entry doomed to collect dust on video shelves and viewed after midnight on cable . 
stalked does not provide much suspense , though that is what it sets out to do . 
interspersed throughout the opening credits , for instance , a serious-sounding narrator spouts statistics about stalkers and ponders what may cause a man to stalk ( it's implicitly implied that all stalkers are men ) while pictures of a boy are shown on the screen . 
after these credits , a snapshot of actor jay underwood appears . 
the narrator states that " this is the story of daryl gleason " and tells the audience that he is the stalker . 
of course , really , this is the story of restauranteur brooke daniels . 
if the movie was meant to be about daryl , then it should have been called stalker not stalked . 
okay . so we know who the stalker is even before the movie starts ; no guesswork required . 
stalked proceeds , then , as it begins : obvious , obvious , obvious . 
the opening sequence , contrived quite a bit , brings daryl and brooke ( the victim ) together . 
daryl obsesses over brooke , follows her around , and tries to woo her . 
ultimately rejected by her , his plans become more and more desperate and elaborate . 
these plans include the all-time , psycho-in-love , cliche : the murdered pet . 
for some reason , this genre's films require a dead pet to be found by the victim stalked . 
stalked is no exception ( it's a cat this time -- found in the shower ) . 
events like these lead to the inevitable showdown between stalker and stalked , where only one survives ( guess who it invariably always is and you'll guess the conclusion to this turkey ) . 
stalked's cast is uniformly adequate : not anything to write home about but also not all that bad either . 
jay underwood , as the stalker , turns toward melodrama a bit too much . 
he overdoes it , in other words , but he still manages to be creepy enough to pass as the type of stalker the story demands . 
maryam d'abo , about the only actor close to being a star here ( she played the bond chick in the living daylights ) , is equally adequate as the " stalked " of the title , even though she seems too ditzy at times to be a strong , independent business-owner . 
call it a road trip for the walking wounded . 
stellan skarsg ? rd plays such a convincingly zombified drunken loser that it's difficult to spend nearly two hours of screen time in his smelly , boozed-out presence . 
yet this ever-reliable swedish actor adds depth and significance to the otherwise plodding and forgettable aberdeen , a sentimental and painfully mundane european drama . 
playwright august strindberg built his career on families and relationships paralyzed by secrets , unable to express their longings until the hour is far too late . 
that's an accurate reflection of what aberdeen strives for , focusing on the pairing of an alcoholic father , tomas ( skarsg ? rd ) and his alienated , openly hostile yuppie daughter , kaisa ( lena headey , gossip ) . 
they haven't spoken in years , and wouldn't even be making the long trip from norway to aberdeen , scotland by automobile if it weren't for kaisa's mother ( charlotte rampling , under the sand ) rotting away in a hospital bed from cancer . 
in a soap opera twist , mother has only a few days to live . 
 ( only in the movies , right ? ) 
too blitzed to even step foot on a plane , tomas hits the open road with kaisa . 
loathing each other all the while , they make periodic stops for tomas to puke on the dashboard or pass out -- whenever he isn't muttering what a rotten kid she turned out to be . 
despite his sloshed viewpoint , tomas recognizes that the apple hasn't fallen very far from the tree . 
kaisa gets nosebleeds from snorting coke , sabotages her personal relationships through indifference , and is unable to restrain her quick and vindictive temper . 
ain't they a pair ? 
unable to find true notes of unspoken familial empathy in the one-note and repetitively bitchy dialogue , screenwriters kristin amundsen and hans petter moland fabricate a series of contrivances to propel events forward -- lost money , roving street hooligans looking for drunks to kick around , nosy cops , and flat tires all figure into the schematic and convenient narrative . 
by the time they reach the hospital , it's time to unveil the secrets from a dark past that are not only simplistic devices that trivialize the father-daughter conflict , they're also the mainstays of many a bad strindberg wannabe . 
this revelation exists purely for its own sake . 
aberdeen doesn't know where else to go . 
weak , unimaginative casting thwarts the pivotal role of kaisa . 
if lena headey were a stronger actress , perhaps aberdeen could have been able to coast on the performances and moody , haunting cinematography ( rendering norway into its own pastoral ghost world -- the reference to a certain superior american indie flick intentional ) . 
headey's too busy acting , using her face and furrowed brow to convey every last twitch of insouciance . 
if she were paying any attention to skarsg ? rd , maybe she'd figure out that doing less can reveal so much more . 
it's worthwhile to compare aberdeen to an earlier film released in 2001 , jonathan nossiter's captivating signs & wonders . 
it's not just because skarsg ? rd and rampling played disturbed parental figures in both films ( they're not bound by ceremonial wedlock in aberdeen ) . 
the differences in the way their characters were presented is significant . 
in aberdeen , rampling is a luminous diva , preening and static in her hospital bed . 
plot : a young french boy sees his parents killed before his eyes by tim roth , oops . . . i 
mean , an evil man . 
he vows revenge on that man and is taught the ways of the musketeer by some old dude who used to be one himself ? 
anyway , fourteen years go by and . . . arrgh , well , you know the rest . . . swish-swish-zzzzzzz ! 
critique : this is a pretty bad movie . 
let's see , where should i start ? 
okay , first of all , the story is just plain boring . 
it's not original , is entirely predictable and lacks energy . 
okay , what's next ? 
acting , you say . 
hmmmm , well , the main actor , justin chambers , is basically an uncharismatic version of chris o'donnell but with less range ( think about that ! ) , and mena suvari , is just plain off . 
not as bad as thora birch was in dungeons & dragons , but entirely miscast , with bad deliveries , awful sequences and a piss-poor accent that comes and goes . 
now i'm not sure if this was ms . suvari's fault or the director's , but i've definitely seen her at a much higher level than in this film . 
the only semi-saving grace actor-wise is tim roth as the irrepressible " bad guy " , but once again , it's not something that we haven't seen before . . . a 
thousand times . . . by the same guy ! ! 
tim , please . . . for the love of god , beg your agent to ask the marketplace for some modern day " american roles " for you as a " nice guy " in a romantic comedy or something . 
stretch , dude . . . stretch ! ! 
we all know that you can do much better than this gunk . 
alright , what else was bad in this film ? 
oh yeah , the score ! 
yikes , how's about taking it down a few notches there , fellas ? 
this thing blares in your ear whenever it feels the need to accentuate a certain scene , but actually does little more than annoy . 
i think it's important for the man behind the music to recognize that this film isn't a " real epic " by any stretch of the imagination . 
it's a fluffy rehashed cake-walk created by some " shrewd " studio heads who decided to take advantage of the whole " kung-fu " phenomenon in films , and test it out on an old classic . 
dudes . . . you 